---
layout: post
title: Gotcha!
---

I found you! I've pin-pointed the issue. The funny thing is that neither my fixture nor the server-side generated code were wrong!

My client was sensitive for blank-node classes - in search for _solid_ class definition which was supposed to be in a _OWLs_ _subClassOf_ chain it searched only for specific patterns.
Unfortunately, for some cases server was sub-classing explicitely named classes, thus breaking my client's logic.

The worst thing is that those cases are pretty legal from _OWL_ point of view, yet parsing them is a real pain.

Consider a situation when an operation returns an instance of the _Person_ class:

```
<api/people/{id} a hydra:Operation ;
	hydra:returns api:Person .
```

Another operation returns a collection of those instances of _Person_ class:

```
<api/people> a hydra:Operation ;
	hydra:returns hydra:Collection .
```

In order to have a _strongly-typed_ result description I'd need to do this:

```
<api/people> a hydra:Operation ;
	hydra:returns api:EnumerationOfPerson .

api:EnumerationOfPerson owl:subClassOf hydra:Collection ;
	owl:subClassOf [ a owl:Restriction; owl:onProperty hydra:member; owl:allValuesFrom api:Person ] .
```

Much better. But if I'd like to have i.e. an operation specific description of the returned type, I'd need to do this:

```
<api/people> a hydra:Operation ;
	hydra:returns [
		rdfs:comment "Returns collection of Person." ;
		owl:subClassOf api:EnumerationOfPerson ] .

api:EnumerationOfPerson owl:subClassOf hydra:Collection ;
	owl:subClassOf [ a owl:Restriction; owl:onProperty hydra:member; owl:allValuesFrom api:Person ] .
```

This means that the operation returns an _anonymous_ class that is a sub-class of the _api:EnumerationOfPerson_, which is next a sub-class of a _hydra:Collection_ and another _anonymous_ class that restricts type of the collection members.
While this is the least intrusive way of automatically generating _OWL_ class descriptions, parsing it to build an actual view of a collection of people is a hell!

I'm gonna spend some time on this :(.